Quiz App: List of questions


=-=-=

Goaltending occurs when

A defensive player interferes with a shot while it's on the way down toward the basket.

A defensive player interferes with a shot while it's on the way up toward the basket after having touched the backboard, while it's in the cylinder above the rim.

When an offensive player interferes with a shot while it's in the cylinder above the rim.

All the above.


=-=-=

A three second violation occurs when

An offensive player takes longer than three seconds to reach within the three-point line. Anytime the ball hits the rim, the three seconds starts over again.

A defensive player takes longer than three seconds to begin dribbling after the clock starts.

An offensive player stays in the free throw lane, or key, for more than three seconds. Anytime they leave the key, or the ball hits the rim, the three seconds starts over again.

All the above.

Answer: An offensive player stays in the free throw lane, or key, for more than three seconds. Anytime they leave the key, or the ball hits the rim, the three seconds starts over again.

Offensive players are not allowed to stay in the free throw lane, or key, for more than three seconds. Anytime they leave the key, or the ball hits the rim, the three second count starts over again.


=-=-=

Double dribbling occurs when

You begin dribbling, cross over, and then begin dribbling again.

You begin dribbling, then stop dribbling, and then begin dribbling again.

You begin dribbling towards the basket, stop moving towards the basket, and then start moving towards the basket again, without going back to the three-point line.

When a player, upon stealing the ball, doesn't check the ball back in or go back to their own three-point line before approaching the basket.

Answer: You begin dribbling, then stop dribbling, and then begin dribbling again.

You only get to dribble once in basketball. If you stop dribbling, you have to pass it to another player or shoot the ball. If you start dribbling again, this is called double dribbling.


=-=-=

An over-and-back violation occurs when

When the offensive team performs a layup without swinging the ball around their back.

When a defensive player screens an opponent and then suddenly move forward.

When a defensive player, upon stepping out of bounds, steps back into the court.

When the offensive team has gotten the ball over half court, and then takes the ball back into the defender's half court.

Answer: When the offensive team has gotten the ball over half court, and then takes the ball back into the defender's half court.

Once the offensive team has gotten the ball over half court, they cannot go back into the defender's half court with the ball. This is called over-and-back.


=-=-=

Carrying occurs when

A player who is dribbling the ball carries the ball in one hand for a long time, like double dribbling.

One player jumps on top of another player to play defense.

A defensive player places their arms around another player or "hugs" them.

A player is suspected of using illegal enhancing drugs or "doping".

Answer: A player who is dribbling the ball carries the ball in one hand for a long time, like double dribbling.

Carrying, or palming, is like a double dribble. Players may not put the palm of their hands under the ball or carry the ball in one hand for a long time. This is like holding the ball and a double dribble.


=-=-=

Traveling violation occurs when

When a player moves with the ball without dribbling.

When a player move beyond half court before the shot clock is at 10 seconds or under.

When a coach steps into the basketball court while the ball is in play.

When a player attempts a layup or drunk from beyond the free throw line.

Answer: When a player moves with the ball without dribbling.

One of the basic ideas of the sport of basketball is that you have to dribble or bounce the ball while you are walking or running. When you have stopped dribbling one of your feet will become your pivot foot. You cannot move your pivot foot or lift it off of the ground. If you do, this is called traveling.





